Popp: Well, Dai...
Things are looking pretty
bad here, aren't they?
Looks like.
[struggling grunt]
Popp [thought]: It's no use.
Even if I keep holding
off these flames,
my stamina won't
last much longer...
And with Dai's Aura
already spent,
it's up to me to
get us out of here-
but my hands are
full as it is.
Maybe our luck's run out.
[struggling grunts]
Popp - hey!
Popp: Sorry, pal.
I jumped in here because
I thought this would work...
I guess I bit off
more than I could chew.
It looks like... this
might be... the end...
But - no!
Popp: I'm sorry.
Damnit!
[straining grunts]
Hadlar: You gutless fools.
H-Hadlar?
Hadlar: How can you two...
call yourselves
Disciples of Avan?
Hadlar: Pathetic.
To just close your eyes
and accept your death
at a time like this...
And claim... that
you're his pupils...
Hadlar: How disappointed
your master will be
in the afterlife...
Who are you to say -
Hadlar: Listen to me!
Hadlar: I didn't give my life
trying to defeat
a couple of cowards.
The Disciples of Avan I knew
had the hearts of lions.
They were warriors of hope...
and they thrived in
the face of adversity.
Each of them carried an
iron will that never gave up,
no matter the odds.
And hope...
I-Isn't that supposed to be...
the greatest of any weapon
in a Disciples arsenal?
Hadlar...
That monster...
If it weren't for him,
Avan would be here.
Popp [thought]: And yet...
he just said exactly what
our Master would have.
Now wield that hope of
yours and do something.
I thought I was beaten by
the students of the old Hero.
Don't you dare make
me into a fool...
who lost to some
false warriors!
Popp [thought]: Are we really
being lectured by our enemy?
We've gone head-to-head
with Hadlar so many times,
he understands
what it means to be
a student of
Avan more than we do.
Popp: In that case, who cares
if this is the end of us...
If this is where
we're going down,
then we're gonna
go down fighting!
Popp: [roaring]
Whoa, Popp...
Popp [thought]: Okay.
Cool speech, but now what?
A little extra magic
doesn't change the fact
that we're out of options.
It's not going to
help us escape.
Hang on...
I think there's a way out.
You think so?
Dai, you can still conjure
spells without your Aura, right?
Probably...
But in this state,
I don't know about my aim.
Plus, my...
Magic Power isn't...
Popp: Don't worry. You won't
need to aim at anything.
You only need
to cast one spell...
Popp: Zoom!
Popp: Just point
it straight up
and we'll fly out
the top of this thing.
Got it?
Not really. If I miss...
we'll crash into
a wall of flames!
Popp: That's where I come in.
I'll clear the way for you...
with a little
help from my Medroa.
That's it!
Right! It's a long shot...
But Medroa should
blow anything away.
Popp: The way I figure,
this trap is a massive
vortex created by focusing
all the Underworld fire
into a single point...
And that means, if I...
can cast Medroa
directly above
where the flames
are gathering...
it should be enough to punch
a hole right through them.
It might only
last for an instant...
And I say we take that shot.
Okay.
But listen, when you see sky,
you have gotta cast that spell.
Then I'll grab onto you
and we're in the clear.
Casting Medroa
is probably going to
drain me of all my
Magic Power, though...
So this'll be our only chance.
Right. It'll work.
Hadlar: Well? What
are you waiting for?
Hadlar: If there's a way,
then do it before
you're out of time.
Don't hesitate on
my account...
I'm doomed to crumble
to ashes either way.
And you can't let this
opportunity pass you by.
All right.
Everybody!
Popp...
Popp: We're going to
take one last stab at
breaking free of this.
Cross your fingers, okay?
We will.
[excited chirps]
Here goes... nothing...
[struggling grunt]
What's wrong?
[roaring]
Aw, man.
If I let my Ice-type
magic weaken even a little,
they'll be overpowered
by these flames...
No - come on!
[straining grunts]
Popp [thought]:
It's too much.
I can't hold off this fire and
cast Medroa at the same time.
I can't...
[roaring]
[howling]
Dai [thought]: Wait,
is he really...
Popp [thought]:
I don't believe it.
[struggling growl]
Hadlar - what do you
think you're doing?!
Hadlar: Ignore me.
I'm doing as I wish.
Now you have your chance.
Don't you dare
let it go to waste!
You don't mean -
I've given up everything
for this fight...
and I'm not about to
let that jester Killvearn
spoil my efforts
with his party tricks.
I may have lost,
but I won't allow my
companions to be forgotten.
And if our last stand
ends without any victors,
then who will tell the world
about their
extraordinary sacrifice?
Hadlar: It's
now or never, Popp.
I've come back
from the dead...
Consider this
your lucky break!
[roaring]
Popp: Get ready, Dai...
This is it...
'Kay!
[roaring]
Do it! Now!
Medroa!
Dai [thought]:
It really worked!
Popp [thought]:
There we go.
There's your way out.
Hurry, before I...
Zoom!
[worried chirp]
Hey, where...
Where did Popp go?
He was...
What happened?
Dai, where is he?
No, Popp!
Popp: Maam? I...
[defeated chuckle]
I really messed up.
This isn't how I wanted
it to end, but, well...
I'm sorry.
Popp: I guess I won't...
be seeing that future
with you after all.
No... Popp!
But, why?
Dai: Popp!
Killvearn: [devious chuckle]
Isn't it beautiful?
The Nine of Diamonds trap
has reached its final stage.
So say your farewells,
little Mage.
It won't be long now.
Somebody...
Help him...
Anybody, please.
Do something!
Killvearn: Ah, yes.
Here it comes.
My favorite part of the show.
All the fires converge
above the central diamond,
and plunge back into
the Underworld...
In their wake,
not even ashes remain.
[chuckle]
A final flourish - even
better than fireworks.
Vearn: You're in
a good mood...
considering the Hero
managed to escape.
I have plenty more traps
to deal with him, Sire.
There's one for every
card in the deck.
The boy and his party are bound
to be lost in the shuffle.
At any rate, we're quite
lucky to have caught
this annoying little
brat on the first draw.
You seem to hold the Mage
in rather high regard
for a mere human.
Killvearn: Ah, one mustn't
underestimate the humans.
Popp's potential for growth
is even greater than Dai's.
With him taken care of,
the rest of the Disciples will
never reach this inner sanctum.
I'll pick them off one-by-one.
Calls for a toast,
don't you agree?
Killvearn: So cheers to our
success... and Popp's demise.
Yeah, cheers!
H-Hadlar?!
Well, look at us...
I guess you're getting... the
best of both worlds, aren't you?
Hadlar: Don't be stupid.
I won't watch
you accept defeat.
Stand up and try again.
Try what?
It's over. I'm out of
Magic Power and stamina...
But at least...
I managed to save Dai.
That's good enough for me.
Hadlar: Do you think
this is sacrifice?
No, it's stupidity.
If you hadn't hesitated,
you could've escaped
alongside him.
But instead, you've given
up your only chance
and what for?
I... I just froze
up when I saw you.
I don't understand.
Popp: I don't either,
but when I saw
you giving everything
you had left just to
help us survive...
It didn't feel like you
were our enemy anymore.
Popp: Maybe that was
stupidity, but either way...
I knew you weren't
gonna make it.
And, well, I just couldn't...
I couldn't leave you behind.
I mean, look at you...
Popp: Fighting to
defend your honor.
Standing by your friends...
through everything.
And when it came
to fighting us,
you did everything you could to
make sure it was a fair fight...
No matter what it
would cost you...
How are you any different
from the five of us?
We're the same, Hadlar.
But, Popp... y-you...
Popp: In that moment when I
saw you starting to crumble,
something shifted in me...
I couldn't bring
myself to look away.
It was like a reflex -
I just reached out to you.
Popp: And that's why...
I couldn't grab
onto Dai in time.
[chuckling]
Now that is stupid, right?
To give up my only
chance at survival
because I wanted to
save our mortal enemy...
When I get to the afterlife,
Master Avan's gonna
give me an earful.
On second thought,
he wouldn't blame me...
He'd know exactly how I feel.
Popp - why?!
Popp: H-Hadlar?
[mournful sobbing]
Are you crying... over me?
Hadlar: Popp, I...
I don't deserve your mercy.
A-After everything
I've done...
Everything I've
taken from you...
Forgive me.
No, I should thank you.
If you hadn't been here,
I couldn't have cast Medroa.
Popp: You helped me
save Dai, Hadlar.
[grim chuckle]
It's so hot in this thing,
you can't even cry properly.
Not the best way to
go if you ask me.
But at least we'll
go together...
Master Avan, he'll be shocked.
Hadlar [thought]: Hear me...
oh, mighty God of Humanity.
As a Darkling, this is
my first ever prayer...
but if you truly preside
over the lives of humans
as their legends tell,
and if you have the
power, then please...
Spare him.
Spare this magnificent man-
show him the same
mercy he showed me.
Please don't let him
die for a monster;
let him live.
Send him a miracle.
I beg you.
I beg you!
Killvearn: Perfection.
And now, the grand finale.
Burn away, you filthy mortals!
He can't...
Dai: He can't be gone...
Come back!
[gasps]
[shocked chirp]
Maam: Is he...
What in the... What is this?
Avan: Now, Popp.
I'm all for surprises...
But it's a little early for
you to head to the afterlife.
Avan: And even if you had,
I wouldn't have been
waiting there for you.
No way...
Is this a dream?
It can't be. I thought that...
Impossible...
Killvearn: H-How?
He was dead!
M-Master... It's you.
Popp [thought]:
It can't be...
Either I'm seeing things...
Or th-this... this
really is the afterlife.
Yes, I'm here.
It'll be a moment before
I heal you, though, Popp.
Avan: And while we're on
the subject of surprises,
it appears I owe you
a word of gratitude...
Hadlar.
Unbelievable...
It's really you, isn't it?
After all this time.
I have to admit,
I didn't expect that you,
of all people, would end up
rescuing one of my students.
Avan: The Hadlar I knew
would never even dream
of doing such a thing.
However, I get the
sense that you've become
a different man than
the one I once knew...
And now the world is finally
rid of the Dark Lord.
Why, you little...
Avan: I know it's strange,
saying this to my old rival -
after so many years
and countless battles -
but truly...
You old fool.
Do you really intend
to thank me for this?!
Hadlar: You're soft.
You're still as
hopelessly soft as ever...
And you... make me sick!
Hadlar: But you
can't hide from me...
And this time I won't give
you the chance to meddle...
You spineless Reaper.
Yeesh. Good riddance,
Killvearn.
Avan: Hadlar?
Hadlar: Well, I suppose...
that was truly the
last of my strength.
A Superior Being can
never outrun it's fate.
Hadlar... What's happening?
Hadlar: Listen well, Avan.
The Dark King Vearn is as
dangerous as they come.
Be as cold as ice -
don't hold anything back.
If you wish for your Disciples
to survive the battle ahead...
then you're going
to have to summon
every ounce of your power.
[gasping]
And you know, for
whatever it's worth...
These students of yours
made glorious adversaries.
So much so...
that instead
of defeating me...
they made me become
a better man.
Hadlar: And with your power,
I have no doubt...
that you'll lead them...
to an equally
glorious victory.
Hadlar...
Hadlar: So, if you
want to show me...
your gratitude...
Then that's the best
way for you to do it.
Popp: Hadlar...
Hadlar: Popp.
It seems that your
God of Humanity
has a remarkably
poetic sense of irony...
But not without a
certain kind of fairness.
Huh?
It's rather fitting that
in exchange for my life...
your god has
returned the treasure
I once stole
from the world...
and granted
you with a miracle,
right when you
needed one most.
And not only that...
Your god was
generous enough...
to let me die right here...
in the arms...
of one of the greatest men
this realm has ever known.
Popp [thought]: Hadlar...
I hope you know that
in your last moments,
you became one of us.
You were our friend,
and we'll remember you.
Farewell.
Narrator:
With Hadlar's demise
and Avan's miraculous return,
Dai and his companions are as
overjoyed as they are baffled.
But the battle rages on below,
and the siege
against Vearn Palace
has lost its
element of surprise,
so there's no time to waste
to get on the offensive.
Together with the greatest
ally they could hope for,
the Disciples of Avan head
once more into the breach.
So don't miss
the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"Return of the Great Hero".